## Welcome to Maxim Kasianiuk's Page

### 12 Factor
Going through the website 12factor.net it gave me a better insight on how everyday apps are now being deployed and operated on. As it's a brief insight on how today's apps work it really opens up your mind and gives you a better angle on how apps really work. Now reading through the chapters on this website one thing that I came upon that didn't make much sense to me or wasn't fully clarified was chapter 8 concurrency. This chapter covers the processing part of the everyday app and reading this section I simply didn't understand it. Often when I read off this website most of it had made sense and I tried to have it relate to the project seeing how it's giving me a better insight on how I should probably approach it. This website also gave me a few tasks at hand that I can now deal with as in regarding the final project as most of it can be related to what we are currently doing in the course. Seeing how I'm going to be focusing on database handling I'm going to take chapter 3 on configuration and look into what kind of resources I can use when handling storage. Overall, this website had given me a better insight on what I should focus on when working on the project and possibly what I can do to improve it.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Chapter 7 The Pragmatic Programmer
Reading through the first part of this chapter it really caught my attention with the opening as I've honestly had these kinds of problems before I usually start my projects. With the requirements portion of the chapter I can agree with it as it's really important to know what you're going to be working on and what specific details you need to focus on. Usually when I work on a project I try to accomplish the tasks that I know at hand at the very beginning and attempt to finish them first. After the completed requirements that I specifically know for the project I tend to change and work on the more difficult tasks at hand. Another portion of the chapter that had caught my attention was maintaining a glossary as this indeed was a very useful tool that someday I may apply to my everyday programming. Maintaining a glossary may also help me to distinguish what portions of the project I need to focus on and this will help me make points on what the code does for someone specifically. Commnenting in code is very important and when writing code I try to implement comments as much as possible. Commenting in code lets me know what pieces I've accomplished or what portion of the project it is and in the end it'll help distinguish what's what in my code. 

A piece of the chapter that I haven't covered in my life as a programmar was getting the word out and this had seemed very interesting to me on how people usually get their code out. As informing as this chapter was it helped me distinguish what I'm expected to do in the future and I'll possibly use this information to one day get my code out.

Overall in this chapter of the book it had given me a better insight on how as a programmer I should be working. It's given me an idea on how I should plan me work out better and in the future I'll try to apply these rules to myself. This chapter gave me better clarification on what pieces I need to work on for the future of my code and someday I'll hope to be able to apply all of these points made in the chapter without any hesitation. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Chapter 4 The Pragmatic Programmer
As I read through chapter 4 of The Pragmatic Programmer a few things that I observed when reading this chapter were the diffrent forms of contracts and how they are used. One of the key important points that I had observed was that even dead programs are useful expecially when looking back at the errors and finding out what kind of mistakes were made as this is a very important learning tool. A point that I had found shocking interesting made in the passage was crash, dont trash as it stated that you should have your program crash and fixing the solution with the tools that are given to you and fix it. As this made me question the method when reading through this point that was made it cleared things up a little, but still had me a little confused and questioning this process. 

Overall this chapter had summed up most of the basic functions that I was taught in Java for example when to use exceptions in your program or how to structure your written program correctly. This chapter in the book gave me an insight on a few things as it gave me some kind of knowledge on working with diffrent languages and their diffrent kinds of operations when working with certain functions. As one of the key points that I'm going to try and implement in my future projects/assignments is to balance my resources as it was the last point made in this chapter I found this to be incredibly important to everyday programming so that it's structured well enough.

In the end this chapter had left me with a few questions that I'm currently trying to resolve as it's given me a diffrent insight on how diffrent functions operate in languages. Some key points have been taken from this chapter and I will try to apply it to everyday programming when working with the functions that I had read. Hopefully I'll be able to someday use these tools without any hesitation.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Chapter 2 The Pragmatic Programmer
Reading through chapter 2 one of the very first things that caught my eye was how most programmers are constantly in maintence mode. As this can be somewhat related and from what I've seen from programmers out in the real world they're always trying to develop the software into something better while at the same time working on bugs and small fixes in their programs. Reducing risks while working on a software can also help out a programmer as this won't completely destroy what he was working on. Teamwork also plays a large role for when it comes to programming as most people tend to think they can fix most problem on their own while in reality that's not the case. 

Flexible architecture. I believe that this is important for a programmer when working as if you jumble up a bunch of code then it simply wouldn't make sense for the next person to work on it or if you need to go back and change something. This is key for when working on a project so that in the end it won't hurt you. 

Overall in this chapter of the book it discusses ways that you can program and how you can as a programmer fix your habits or simply improve them. As the key points that I have listed above are the most important points that I took from this chapter and am going to apply it when I decide to write a program. These points listed are important as I believe that they're going to play a larger role in the futureu to come. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### The Pragmatic Programmer
Reading through chapter 1 one of the first things that catches my eyes is that pragmatic programmers take charge of their own career paths and aren't afraid of ignorance or error. Seeing how I've been programming for a while now it's come to my attention that this statement is true, that every programmer will experience this whether its failure with their code or something else there's always going to be errors in programming and that I find is very true. Another thing that caught my eye when reading through the chapter was that we need to fix any "broken windows" we come by as it can't be left for later. These windows in the long run might hurt you the programmer in the end so as soon as any error comes up a solution needs to be found. I so far in the programming world haven't experienced much for when it came to customers and their needs for a product so my expectation for when working for people I'm not to certain on making the program I'm writing to be great, but not in perfect condition as won't that make the customer not totally satisfied? Another thing that I questioned when reading chapter one was when it had told you not throw away the painting that you've been working on, because in my opinion sometimes in order for me to go into another direction I'll need to completely delete all of the code that I've written so far.

Experimenting with different platforms and enviroments can help strengthen a programmer. I really agree with this as it'll give every programmer an understanding on how other machines operate possibly helping you in a future project with someone else working on a different machine or platform. Building a network will also benefit a programmer building him or her better connections with different people. I feel that as a programmer it's very important for people to communicate with one another no matter what project they're working on as it can give you a better understanding on what the project is and what outcome is expected.

Overall reading through chapter one of The Pragmatic Programmer I've realised that all the points listed need to be applied as it can help me prepare for the real world that comes after graduation. Many programmers don't expect this kind of behaviour as they're accustomed to their own lifestyle, but in the end looking at the points I've made it'll only benefit a programmer working on a project.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
### Why I'm taking Software Engineering?
As I'm a computer science major this is one of my required courses in order for me to attain the diploma when I graduate. I really look forward to getting a lot more hands on experience for when it comes to software development in the real world as it'll give me a better understanding on how most of the world runs on computers. I hope to also cover software security as it'll give me a better understanding on how security works online.
Overall, I hope to get a better understanding on how software systems work in the real world and that by the end of the course I'll be able to get a better feel myself. I hope to gain more knowledge on how softwares work from this course applying it to the real world and everday use.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### What Software Engineering means to me
In today's world almost everythign revolves around technology and the demand for Software Engineers is growing as well. Software Engineers today play an important role when it comes to developing softwares for example: Emails, Video Games, and Websites. Any technology that is contact with a computer or mobile system has to designed by someone like a Software Engineer. These Engineers make sure the system runs properly and smoothly so that the customer is happy with the product. Not only do they they maintain how the software works, but these engineers also design them. Software Engineers play a huge role in our society that many people don't realize it, but if they hadn't existed then possibly most of the tehcnolgy that we possess today simply wouldn't exist without them. 

I personally view Software Engineers as a high priority in today's society seeing how they play such a huge role when it comes to the influence they have. Watching the world evolve at rapid rate and the demand for more Software Engineers continues to grow more companies are trying to distinguish or grow on the internet today, seeing how it's the main source of communication we have today.


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

You can use the [editor on GitHub](https://github.com/maxim9898/maxim9898.github.io/edit/master/index.md) to maintain and preview the content for your website in Markdown files.
